One more method we are discussing is the split method.
This method is used with normal string or with regular expression.
It converts string into an array with a given delimiter.
The syntax looks like this.
We give a string dot split.
Here we give the regular expression or a separator.
Character is a pattern or a separator by which string is split.
Limit is an optional argument.
If given, then limits number of returned values.
Returns an array of string values.
Let's try the split methods example without regular expression.
First, I'll declare a variable and I'll say split.
I'm giving a space that means this is a character I have given that is a separator character.
Let's run the code.
As you see the output, it has returned an array because the separator is a space given in split method.
It has split the string by space instead of a space.
If you give any other character, then split method will separate the string.
Considering that given character as a separator, for example, if you give a comma then it will return
individual values separated by comma.
If you give multiple characters that is a word, then that word will be treated as a separator.
Let's give the word is as an argument in the split method and see the output.
So now every time it finds the is, it's treated as a separator and this is what we get when is is the
separator.
So this is a normal usage of split method.
But as seen in the syntax, we can use split with regular expression as well.
So let's try it with an example.
I'm adding a digit after every word in the string.
Now I will give a pattern as an argument in the split.
I'll say slash D that is digit.
Now you can see that split considers regular expression pattern as a separator and does the job of splitting
the string.
And thus we get individual words separated by a digit in the array.
In case you want that, the digit should also be included in the results which you don't see in the
output at the moment.
Then you can use parentheses along with slash DX.
Let's try that and see the output.
Now we have the separator also included in the output or in the returned array.
That is also an optional parameter called limit, which you can pass in the split method, which limits
the number of elements or values returned.
Let's add a limit in the current example that I want only three values to be returned and see the output.
Now you see that only three values are returned in the output Split method with various patterns is
a very useful feature in day to day programming.